1+ Benjamin fathered Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, + Aharah the third, 
2Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth. 
3And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud, 
4Abishua, + Naaman, Ahoah, 
5Gera, + Shephuphan, and Huram. 
6These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers’ houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to + Manahath): 
7Naaman,+  Ahijah, and Gera, that is, Heglam,+  who fathered Uzza and Ahihud. 
8And Shaharaim fathered sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives. 
9He fathered sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam, 
10Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers’ houses. 
11He also fathered sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal. 
12The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built + Ono and + Lod with its towns, 
13and Beriah and + Shema (they were heads of fathers’ houses of the inhabitants of + Aijalon, who caused the inhabitants of Gath to flee); 
14and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth. 
15Zebadiah, Arad, Eder, 
16Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah. 
17Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber, 
18Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal. 
19Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi, 
20Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel, 
21Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei. 
22Ishpan, Eber, Eliel, 
23Abdon, Zichri, Hanan, 
24Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah, 
25Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak. 
26Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah, 
27Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham. 
28These were the heads of fathers’ houses, according to their generations, chief men. These lived in Jerusalem.
29+ + Jeiel+  the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah. 
30His firstborn son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab, 
31Gedor, Ahio, Zecher, 
32and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen. 
33+ Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of + Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal; 
34and the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal was the father of + Micah. 
35The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz. 
36Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri fathered Moza. 
37Moza fathered Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son. 
38Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel. 
39The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third. 
40The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons, 150. All these were Benjaminites.
