1David and the chiefs of the service also set apart for the service the sons of + Asaph, and of + Heman, and of + Jeduthun, who + prophesied with lyres, with + harps, and with cymbals. The list of those who did the work and of their duties was: 
2Of the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asharelah, sons of Asaph, under the direction of Asaph, who + prophesied under the direction of the king. 
3Of Jeduthun, the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Shimei,+  Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the direction of their father Jeduthun, + who prophesied with the lyre in thanksgiving and praise to the Lord. 
4Of Heman, the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamti-ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, Mahazioth. 
5All these were the sons of Heman + the king’s seer, according to the promise of God to exalt him, for God had given Heman fourteen sons and three daughters. 
6They were all under the direction of their father in the music in the house of the Lord with cymbals, + harps, and lyres for the service of the house of God. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the order of the king. 
7The number of them along with their brothers, who were trained in singing to the Lord, all who were skillful, was + 288. 
8And they cast lots for their duties, + small and great, teacher and pupil alike.
9The first lot fell for Asaph to Joseph; the second to Gedaliah, to him and his brothers and his sons, twelve; 
10the third to Zaccur, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
11the fourth to Izri, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
12the fifth to Nethaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
13the sixth to Bukkiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
14the seventh to Jesharelah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
15the eighth to Jeshaiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
16the ninth to Mattaniah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
17the tenth to Shimei, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
18the eleventh to Azarel, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
19the twelfth to Hashabiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
20to the thirteenth, Shubael, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
21to the fourteenth, Mattithiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
22to the fifteenth, to Jeremoth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
23to the sixteenth, to Hananiah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
24to the seventeenth, to Joshbekashah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
25to the eighteenth, to Hanani, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
26to the nineteenth, to Mallothi, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
27to the twentieth, to Eliathah, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
28to the twenty-first, to Hothir, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
29to the twenty-second, to Giddalti, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
30to the twenty-third, to Mahazioth, his sons and his brothers, twelve; 
31to the twenty-fourth, to Romamti-ezer, his sons and his brothers, twelve.
