1+ The sons of Judah: + Perez, Hezron, + Carmi, Hur, and Shobal. 
2+ Reaiah the son of Shobal fathered Jahath, and Jahath fathered Ahumai and Lahad. These were the clans of the + Zorathites. 
3These were the sons+  of Etam: Jezreel, Ishma, and Idbash; and the name of their sister was Hazzelelponi, 
4and + Penuel fathered + Gedor, and Ezer fathered Hushah. These were the sons of Hur, the firstborn of + Ephrathah, the father of Bethlehem. 
5+ Ashhur, the father of Tekoa, had two wives, Helah and Naarah; 
6Naarah bore him Ahuzzam, Hepher, Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah. 
7The sons of Helah: Zereth, Izhar, and Ethnan. 
8Koz fathered Anub, Zobebah, and the clans of Aharhel, the son of Harum. 
9Jabez was + more honorable than his brothers; and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, “Because I bore him in pain.”+ 
10Jabez called upon the God of Israel, saying, “Oh that you would bless me and enlarge my border, and that your hand might be with me, and that you would keep me from harm+  so that it might not bring me pain!” And God granted what he asked. 
11Chelub, the brother of Shuhah, fathered Mehir, who fathered Eshton. 
12Eshton fathered Beth-rapha, Paseah, and Tehinnah, the father of Ir-nahash. These are the men of Recah. 
13The sons of + Kenaz: + Othniel and Seraiah; and the sons of Othniel: Hathath and Meonothai.+ 
14Meonothai fathered Ophrah; and Seraiah fathered Joab, the father of Ge-harashim,+  so-called because they were craftsmen. 
15The sons of + Caleb the son of Jephunneh: Iru, Elah, and Naam; and the son+  of Elah: Kenaz. 
16The sons of Jehallelel: Ziph, Ziphah, Tiria, and Asarel. 
17The sons of Ezrah: Jether, Mered, Epher, and Jalon. These are the sons of Bithiah, the daughter of Pharaoh, whom Mered married;+  and she conceived and bore+  Miriam, Shammai, and Ishbah, the father of Eshtemoa. 
18And his Judahite wife bore + Jered the father of Gedor, Heber the father of Soco, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. 
19The sons of the wife of Hodiah, the sister of Naham, were the fathers of Keilah the Garmite and Eshtemoa the Maacathite. 
20The sons of Shimon: Amnon, Rinnah, Ben-hanan, and Tilon. The sons of Ishi: Zoheth and Ben-zoheth. 
21The sons of + Shelah the son of Judah: Er the father of Lecah, Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the clans of the house of linen workers at Beth-ashbea; 
22and Jokim, and the men of Cozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who ruled in Moab and returned to Lehem+  (now the records+  are ancient). 
23These were the potters who were inhabitants of Netaim and Gederah. They lived there in the king’s service.
24+ The sons of Simeon: Nemuel, Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, Shaul; 
25Shallum was his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son. 
26The sons of Mishma: Hammuel his son, Zaccur his son, Shimei his son. 
27Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brothers did not have many children, + nor did all their clan multiply + like the men of Judah. 
28+ They lived in Beersheba, Moladah, Hazar-shual, 
29+ Bilhah, Ezem, + Tolad, 
30+ Bethuel, Hormah, Ziklag, 
31Beth-marcaboth, + Hazar-susim, + Beth-biri, and + Shaaraim. These were their cities until David reigned. 
32And their villages were Etam, Ain, Rimmon, Tochen, and Ashan, five cities, 
33along with all their villages that were around these cities as far as + Baal. These were their settlements, and they kept a genealogical record.
34Meshobab, Jamlech, Joshah the son of Amaziah, 
35Joel, Jehu the son of Joshibiah, son of Seraiah, son of Asiel, 
36Elioenai, Jaakobah, Jeshohaiah, Asaiah, Adiel, Jesimiel, Benaiah, 
37Ziza the son of Shiphi, son of Allon, son of Jedaiah, son of Shimri, son of Shemaiah— 
38these mentioned by name were princes in their clans, + and their fathers’ houses increased greatly. 
39They journeyed to the entrance of + Gedor, to the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks, 
40where they found rich, good pasture, and the land was very broad, + quiet, and peaceful, for the former inhabitants there belonged to Ham. 
41+ These, registered by name, came in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and destroyed their tents and the Meunites who were found there, and marked them for destruction to this day, + and settled in their place, because there was pasture there for their flocks. 
42And some of them, five hundred men of the Simeonites, went to + Mount Seir, having as their leaders Pelatiah, Neariah, Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi. 
43And they defeated + the remnant of the Amalekites who had escaped, and they have lived there to this day.
