1+ As soon as King Hezekiah heard it, + he tore his clothes and + covered himself with sackcloth and went into the house of the Lord. 
2And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the secretary, and the senior priests, + covered with sackcloth, to the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz. 
3They said to him, “Thus says Hezekiah, This day is a day of distress, of rebuke, and of disgrace; children have come to the point of birth, and there is no strength to bring them forth. 
4+ It may be that the Lord your God heard all the words of the Rabshakeh, whom his master the king of Assyria has sent + to mock the living God, and will rebuke the words that the Lord your God has heard; therefore lift up your prayer for + the remnant that is left.” 
5When the servants of King Hezekiah came to Isaiah, 
6Isaiah said to them, “Say to your master, ‘Thus says the Lord: Do not be afraid because of the words that you have heard, with which + the servants of the king of Assyria have + reviled me. 
7Behold, I will put a spirit in him, so that + he shall hear a rumor and return to his own land, and I will make him + fall by the sword in his own land.’”
8The Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria fighting against + Libnah, for he heard that the king had left + Lachish. 
9+ Now the king heard concerning Tirhakah king of Cush, “Behold, he has set out to fight against you.” So he sent messengers again to Hezekiah, saying, 
10“Thus shall you speak to Hezekiah king of Judah: ‘Do not let your God + in whom you trust deceive you by promising that + Jerusalem will not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria. 
11Behold, you have heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, devoting them to destruction. And shall you be delivered? 
12+ Have the gods of the nations delivered them, the nations that my fathers destroyed, + Gozan, + Haran, Rezeph, and the people of + Eden who were in Telassar? 
13+ Where is the king of Hamath, the king of Arpad, the king of the city of Sepharvaim, the king of Hena, or the king of Ivvah?’”
14Hezekiah received + the letter from the hand of the messengers and read it; and Hezekiah went up to the house of the Lord and spread it before the Lord. 
15And Hezekiah prayed before the Lord and said: “O Lord, the God of Israel, + enthroned above the cherubim, + you are the God, you alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; you have made heaven and earth. 
16+ Incline your ear, O Lord, and hear; + open your eyes, O Lord, and see; and hear the words of Sennacherib, which he has sent + to mock the living God. 
17Truly, O Lord, the kings of Assyria have laid waste the nations and their lands 
18and have cast their gods into the fire, for they were not gods, + but the work of men’s hands, wood and stone. Therefore they were destroyed. 
19So now, O Lord our God, save us, please, from his hand, + that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that + you, O Lord, are God alone.”
20Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, “Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel: Your prayer to me about Sennacherib king of Assyria + I have heard. 
21This is the word that the Lord has spoken concerning him:
22“Whom have you + mocked and + reviled?
23+ By your messengers you have mocked the Lord,
24I dug wells
25“Have you not heard
26while their inhabitants, shorn of strength,
27“But I know your sitting down
28Because you have raged against me
29“And this shall be + the sign for you: this year eat what grows of itself, and in the second year what springs of the same. Then in the third year sow and reap and plant vineyards, and eat their fruit. 
30+ And the surviving remnant of the house of Judah shall again take root downward and bear fruit upward. 
31For out of Jerusalem shall go a remnant, and out of Mount Zion + a band of survivors. + The zeal of the Lord will do this.
32“Therefore thus says the Lord concerning the king of Assyria: He shall not come into this city or shoot an arrow there, or come before it with a shield or + cast up a siege mound against it. 
33+ By the way that he came, by the same he shall return, and he shall not come into this city, declares the Lord. 
34+ For I will defend this city to save it, for my own sake + and for the sake of my servant David.”
35And that night + the angel of the Lord went out and struck down 185,000 in the camp of the Assyrians. And when people arose early in the morning, behold, these were all dead bodies. 
36Then Sennacherib king of Assyria departed and went home and lived at + Nineveh. 
37And as he was worshiping in the house of Nisroch his god, + Adrammelech and Sharezer, his sons, struck him down with the sword and escaped into the land of Ararat. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his place.
