1+  Then the Lord said to Moses, “Go in to Pharaoh and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord, “Let my people go, that + they may serve me. 
2But if you + refuse to let them go, behold, I will plague all your country with + frogs. 
3The Nile shall swarm with frogs that shall come up into your house and into + your bedroom and on your bed and into the houses of your servants and your people,+  and into your ovens and your kneading bowls. 
4The frogs shall come up on you and on your people and on all your servants.”’” 
5+  And the Lord said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, + ‘Stretch out your hand with your staff over the rivers, over the canals and over the pools, and make frogs come up on the land of Egypt!’” 
6So Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and + the frogs came up and covered the land of Egypt. 
7But + the magicians did the same by their secret arts and made frogs come up on the land of Egypt.
8Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, + “Plead with the Lord to take away the frogs from me and from my people, and + I will let the people go to sacrifice to the Lord.” 
9Moses said to Pharaoh, “Be pleased to command me when + I am to plead for you and for your servants and for your people, that the frogs be cut off from you and your houses and be left only in the Nile.” 
10And he said, “Tomorrow.” Moses said, “Be it as you say, so + that you may know that + there is no one like the Lord our God. 
11The frogs shall go away from you and your houses and your servants and your people. They shall be left only in the Nile.” 
12So Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried to the Lord about the frogs, as he had agreed with Pharaoh.+ 
13And the Lord did according to the word of Moses. The frogs died out in the houses, the courtyards, and the fields. 
14And they gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank. 
15But when Pharaoh saw that there was a + respite, he + hardened his heart and would not listen to them, as the Lord had said.
16Then the Lord said to Moses, “Say to Aaron, + ‘Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the earth, so that it may become gnats in all the land of Egypt.’” 
17And they did so. Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and + there were gnats on man and beast. All the dust of the earth became gnats in all the land of Egypt. 
18The + magicians tried by their secret arts to produce gnats, but they could not. So there were gnats on man and beast. 
19Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, “This is + the finger of God.” But Pharaoh’s heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the Lord had said.
20Then the Lord said to Moses, + “Rise up early in the morning and present yourself to Pharaoh, as he goes out to the water, and say to him, ‘Thus says the Lord, + “Let my people go, that they may serve me. 
21Or else, if you will not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies on you and your servants and your people, and into your houses. And the houses of the Egyptians shall be filled with swarms of flies, and also the ground on which they stand. 
22But on that day + I will set apart the land of Goshen, where my people dwell, so that no swarms of flies shall be there, + that you may know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth.+ 
23Thus I will put a division+  between my people and your people. Tomorrow this sign shall happen.”’” 
24And the Lord did so. + There came great swarms of flies into the house of Pharaoh and into his servants’ houses. Throughout all the land of Egypt the land was ruined by the swarms of flies.
25Then Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron and said, “Go, sacrifice to your God within the land.” 
26But Moses said, “It would not be right to do so, for the offerings we shall sacrifice to the Lord our God are an + abomination to the Egyptians. If we sacrifice offerings + abominable to the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us? 
27We must go + three days’ journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the Lord our God + as he tells us.” 
28So Pharaoh said, “I will let you go to sacrifice to the Lord your God in the wilderness; only you must not go very far away. + Plead for me.” 
29Then Moses said, “Behold, I am going out from you and I will plead with the Lord that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, tomorrow. Only let not Pharaoh + cheat again by not letting the people go to sacrifice to the Lord.” 
30So Moses went out from Pharaoh and prayed to the Lord. 
31And the Lord did as Moses asked, and removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; not one remained. 
32But Pharaoh + hardened his heart this time also, and did not let the people go.
