1These are the generations of Esau (that is, + Edom). 
2Esau + took his wives from the Canaanites: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, + Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter+  of Zibeon the Hivite, 
3and + Basemath, Ishmael’s daughter, the sister of Nebaioth. 
4And Adah bore to Esau, + Eliphaz; Basemath bore Reuel; 
5and Oholibamah bore Jeush, Jalam, and Korah. These are the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan.
6Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, his livestock, all his beasts, and all his property that he had acquired in the land of Canaan. He went into a land away from his brother Jacob. 
7+ For their possessions were too great for them to dwell together. + The land of their sojournings could not support them because of their livestock. 
8So Esau settled in + the hill country of Seir. (+ Esau is Edom.)
9These are the generations of Esau the father of + the Edomites in the hill country of Seir. 
10These are the names of Esau’s sons: + Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Basemath the wife of Esau. 
11The sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. 
12(Timna was a concubine of Eliphaz, Esau’s son; she bore + Amalek to Eliphaz.) These are the sons of Adah, Esau’s wife. 
13These are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These are the sons of Basemath, Esau’s wife. 
14These are the sons of + Oholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau’s wife: she bore to Esau Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
15These are + the chiefs of the sons of Esau. + The sons of Eliphaz the firstborn of Esau: the chiefs Teman, Omar, Zepho, Kenaz, 
16Korah, Gatam, and Amalek; these are the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Adah. 
17These are the sons of + Reuel, Esau’s son: the chiefs Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah; these are the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Basemath, Esau’s wife. 
18These are the sons of + Oholibamah, Esau’s wife: the chiefs Jeush, Jalam, and Korah; these are the chiefs born of Oholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau’s wife. 
19These are the sons of Esau (+ that is, Edom), and these are their chiefs.
20+ These are the sons of + Seir the Horite, the inhabitants of the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
21Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir in the land of Edom. 
22The sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan’s sister was Timna. 
23These are the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
24These are the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah; he is the Anah who found the hot springs in the wilderness, as he pastured the donkeys of Zibeon his father. 
25These are the children of Anah: Dishon and + Oholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
26These are the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran. 
27These are the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan. 
28These are the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
29These are the chiefs of the Horites: the + chiefs Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, 
30Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan; these are the chiefs of the Horites, chief by chief in the land of Seir.
31+ These are the kings who reigned in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over the Israelites. 
32Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, the name of his city being Dinhabah. 
33Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place. 
34Jobab died, and Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place. 
35Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who defeated Midian in the country of Moab, reigned in his place, the name of his city being Avith. 
36Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place. 
37Samlah died, and Shaul of + Rehoboth on the Euphrates+  reigned in his place. 
38Shaul died, and Baal-hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place. 
39Baal-hanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his place, the name of his city being Pau; his wife’s name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, daughter of Mezahab.
40These are the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their clans and their dwelling places, by their names: the chiefs Timna, Alvah, Jetheth, 
41Oholibamah, Elah, + Pinon, 
42Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar, 
43Magdiel, and Iram; these are the chiefs of Edom (that is, Esau, the father of + Edom), according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession.
