1Now + the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made.
2And the woman said to the serpent, “We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, 
3but God said, + ‘You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die.’” 
4+ But the serpent said to the woman, “You will not surely die. 
5For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil.” 
6So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise,+  she took of its fruit + and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, + and he ate. 
7+ Then the eyes of both were opened, + and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths.
8And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool+  of the day, and the man and his wife + hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. 
9But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, “Where are you?”+ 
10And he said, “I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, + because I was naked, and I hid myself.” 
11He said, “Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat?” 
12The man said, + “The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate.” 
13Then the Lord God said to the woman, “What is this that you have done?” The woman said, + “The serpent deceived me, and I ate.”
14The Lord God said to the serpent,
15I will put enmity between you and the woman,
16To the woman he said,
17And to Adam he said,
18thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you;
19By the sweat of your face
20The man called his wife’s name Eve, because she was the mother of all living.+ 
21And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them.
22Then the Lord God said, + “Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand + and take also of the tree of life and eat, and live forever—” 
23therefore the Lord God sent him out from the garden of Eden + to work the ground from which he was taken. 
24He drove out the man, and at the east of the garden of Eden he placed the + cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life.
