1Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, “I have gotten+  a man with the help of the Lord.” 
2And again, she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground. 
3In the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering of + the fruit of the ground, 
4and Abel also brought of + the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord + had regard for Abel and his offering, 
5but + for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. 
6The Lord said to Cain, “Why are you angry, and why has your face fallen? 
7+ If you do well, will you not be accepted?+  And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. + Its desire is for+  you, but you must rule over it.”
8Cain spoke to Abel his brother.+  And when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and + killed him. 
9Then the Lord said to Cain, “Where is Abel your brother?” He said, + “I do not know; am I my brother’s keeper?” 
10And the Lord said, “What have you done? The voice of your brother’s blood + is crying to me from the ground. 
11And now + you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother’s blood from your hand. 
12When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth.” 
13Cain said to the Lord, “My + punishment is greater than I can bear.+ 
14Behold, + you have driven me today away from the ground, and + from your face I shall be hidden. I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, + and whoever finds me will kill me.” 
15Then the Lord said to him, “Not so! If anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him + sevenfold.” And the Lord + put a mark on Cain, lest any who found him should attack him. 
16Then Cain went away from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod,+  east of Eden.
17Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son, Enoch. 
18To Enoch was born Irad, and Irad fathered Mehujael, and Mehujael fathered Methushael, and Methushael fathered Lamech. 
19And Lamech took two wives. The name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah. 
20Adah bore Jabal; he was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. 
21His brother’s name was Jubal; he was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. 
22Zillah also bore Tubal-cain; he was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubal-cain was Naamah.
23Lamech said to his wives:
24+ If Cain’s revenge is sevenfold,
25And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth, for she said, “God has appointed+  for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him.” 
26To + Seth also a son was born, and he called his name + Enosh. At that time people began + to call upon the name of the Lord.
