1“But now hear, + O Jacob my servant,
2Thus says the Lord who made you,
3+ For I will pour water on the thirsty land,
4They shall spring up among the grass
5+ This one will say, ‘I am the Lord’s,’
6Thus says the Lord, the King of Israel
7+ Who is like me? Let him proclaim it.+ 
8Fear not, nor be afraid;
9+ All who fashion idols are nothing, and the things they delight in do not profit. Their witnesses neither see nor know, that they may be put to shame. 
10+ Who fashions a god or casts an idol that is profitable for nothing? 
11+ Behold, all his companions shall be put to shame, and the craftsmen are only human. Let them all assemble, let them stand forth. They shall be terrified; they shall be put to shame together.
12+ The ironsmith takes a cutting tool and works it over the coals. He fashions it with hammers and works it with his strong arm. He becomes hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint. 
13The carpenter stretches a line; he marks it out with a pencil. He shapes it with planes and marks it with a compass. + He shapes it into the figure of a man, with the beauty of a man, to dwell in a house. 
14+ He cuts down cedars, or he chooses a cypress tree or an oak and lets it grow strong among the trees of the forest. He plants a cedar and the rain nourishes it. 
15Then it becomes fuel for a man. He takes a part of it and warms himself; he kindles a fire and bakes bread. Also he makes a god and worships it; he makes it an idol and falls down before it. 
16Half of it he burns in the fire. Over the half he eats meat; he roasts it and is satisfied. Also he warms himself and says, “Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire!” 
17And the rest of it he makes into a god, his idol, and falls down to it and worships it. + He prays to it and says, “Deliver me, for you are my god!”
18They know not, nor do they discern, for he has shut their eyes, so that they cannot see, and their hearts, so that they cannot understand. 
19No one considers, nor is there knowledge or discernment to say, “Half of it I burned in the fire; I also baked bread on its coals; I roasted meat and have eaten. And shall I make the rest of it an + abomination? Shall I fall down before a block of wood?” 
20+ He feeds on + ashes; a deluded heart has led him astray, and he cannot deliver himself or say, “Is there not + a lie in my right hand?”
21Remember these things, O Jacob,
22+ I have blotted out your transgressions like a cloud
23+ Sing, O heavens, for the Lord has done it;
24Thus says the Lord, + your Redeemer,
25who frustrates the signs of liars
26+ who confirms the word of his servant
27+ who says to the deep, ‘Be dry;
28who says of + Cyrus, ‘He is + my shepherd,
