1On the day when Moses had finished + setting up the tabernacle and had anointed and + consecrated it with all its furnishings and had anointed and consecrated the altar with all its utensils, 
2+ the chiefs of Israel, heads of their fathers’ houses, who were the chiefs of the tribes, who were over those who were listed, approached 
3and brought their offerings before the Lord, six wagons and twelve oxen, a wagon for every two of the chiefs, and for each one an ox. They brought them before the tabernacle. 
4Then the Lord said to Moses, 
5“Accept these from them, that they may be used in the service of the tent of meeting, and give them to the Levites, to each man according to his service.” 
6So Moses took the wagons and the oxen and gave them to the Levites. 
7Two wagons and four oxen + he gave to the sons of Gershon, according to their service. 
8And four wagons and eight oxen + he gave to the sons of Merari, according to their service, under the direction of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest. 
9But to the sons of Kohath he gave none, because they were charged with + the service of the holy things that + had to be carried on the shoulder. 
10And the chiefs offered offerings for the + dedication of the altar on the day it was anointed; and the chiefs offered their offering before the altar. 
11And the Lord said to Moses, “They shall offer their offerings, one chief each day, for the dedication of the altar.”
12He who offered his offering the first day was + Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah. 
13And his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels,+  one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to + the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a + grain offering; 
14one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of + incense; 
15+ one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
16one male goat for a + sin offering; 
17and for + the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
18On the second day + Nethanel the son of Zuar, the chief of Issachar, made an offering. 
19He offered for his offering one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
20one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
21one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
22one male goat for a sin offering; 
23and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Nethanel the son of Zuar.
24On the third day + Eliab the son of Helon, the chief of the people of Zebulun: 
25his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
26one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
27one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
28one male goat for a sin offering; 
29and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.
30On the fourth day + Elizur the son of Shedeur, the chief of the people of Reuben: 
31his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
32one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
33one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
34one male goat for a sin offering; 
35and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.
36On the fifth day + Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, the chief of the people of Simeon: 
37his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
38one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
39one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
40one male goat for a sin offering; 
41and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
42On the sixth day + Eliasaph the son of Deuel, the chief of the people of Gad: 
43his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
44one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
45one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
46one male goat for a sin offering; 
47and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
48On the seventh day + Elishama the son of Ammihud, the chief of the people of Ephraim: 
49his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
50one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
51one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
52one male goat for a sin offering; 
53and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.
54On the eighth day + Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, the chief of the people of Manasseh: 
55his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
56one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
57one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
58one male goat for a sin offering; 
59and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
60On the ninth day + Abidan the son of Gideoni, the chief of the people of Benjamin: 
61his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
62one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
63one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
64one male goat for a sin offering; 
65and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.
66On the tenth day + Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, the chief of the people of Dan: 
67his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
68one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
69one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
70one male goat for a sin offering; 
71and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
72On the eleventh day + Pagiel the son of Ochran, the chief of the people of Asher: 
73his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
74one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
75one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
76one male goat for a sin offering; 
77and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ochran.
78On the twelfth day + Ahira the son of Enan, the chief of the people of Naphtali: 
79his offering was one silver plate whose weight was 130 shekels, one silver basin of 70 shekels, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, both of them full of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering; 
80one golden dish of 10 shekels, full of incense; 
81one bull from the herd, one ram, one male lamb a year old, for a burnt offering; 
82one male goat for a sin offering; 
83and for the sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs a year old. This was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.
84This was the dedication offering for the altar on the day when it was anointed, from the chiefs of Israel: twelve silver plates, twelve silver basins, twelve golden dishes, 
85each silver plate weighing 130 shekels and each basin 70, all the silver of the vessels 2,400 shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary, 
86the twelve golden dishes, full of incense, weighing 10 shekels apiece according to the shekel of the sanctuary, all the gold of the dishes being 120 shekels; 
87all the cattle for the burnt offering twelve bulls, twelve rams, twelve male lambs a year old, with their grain offering; and twelve male goats for a sin offering; 
88and all the cattle for the sacrifice of peace offerings twenty-four bulls, the rams sixty, the male goats sixty, the male lambs a year old sixty. This was the dedication offering for the altar after it + was anointed.
89And when Moses went into the tent of meeting + to speak with the Lord, he heard + the voice speaking to him from above the mercy seat that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim; and it spoke to him.
