1These are the stages of the people of Israel, when they went out of the land of Egypt by their companies under the leadership of Moses and Aaron. 
2Moses wrote down their starting places, + stage by stage, by command of the Lord, and these are their stages according to their starting places. 
3They + set out from Rameses in + the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month. On the day after the Passover, the people of Israel went out + triumphantly in the sight of all the Egyptians, 
4while the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, + whom the Lord had struck down among them. + On their gods also the Lord executed judgments.
5So the people of Israel set out from Rameses and camped at + Succoth. 
6And they set out from Succoth and camped at + Etham, which is on the edge of the wilderness. 
7And they set out from Etham and turned back to + Pi-hahiroth, which is east of Baal-zephon, and they camped before Migdol. 
8And they set out from before Hahiroth+  and + passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and they + went a three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham and camped at Marah. 
9And they set out from Marah and came to + Elim; at Elim there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there. 
10And they set out from Elim and camped by the Red Sea. 
11And they set out from the Red Sea and camped in + the wilderness of Sin. 
12And they set out from the wilderness of Sin and camped at Dophkah. 
13And they set out from Dophkah and camped at Alush. 
14And they set out from Alush and camped at + Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink. 
15And they set out from Rephidim and camped in the + wilderness of Sinai. 
16And they set out from the wilderness of Sinai and camped at + Kibroth-hattaavah. 
17And they set out from Kibroth-hattaavah and camped at + Hazeroth. 
18And they + set out from Hazeroth and camped at Rithmah. 
19And they set out from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-perez. 
20And they set out from Rimmon-perez and camped at Libnah. 
21And they set out from Libnah and camped at Rissah. 
22And they set out from Rissah and camped at Kehelathah. 
23And they set out from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher. 
24And they set out from Mount Shepher and camped at Haradah. 
25And they set out from Haradah and camped at Makheloth. 
26And they set out from Makheloth and camped at Tahath. 
27And they set out from Tahath and camped at Terah. 
28And they set out from Terah and camped at Mithkah. 
29And they set out from Mithkah and camped at Hashmonah. 
30And they set out from Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth. 
31And they set out from Moseroth and camped at + Bene-jaakan. 
32And they set out from Bene-jaakan and camped at + Hor-haggidgad. 
33And they set out from Hor-haggidgad and camped at + Jotbathah. 
34And they set out from Jotbathah and camped at Abronah. 
35And they set out from Abronah and camped at + Ezion-geber. 
36And they set out from Ezion-geber and camped in the + wilderness of Zin (that is, Kadesh). 
37And they set out from + Kadesh and camped at + Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom.
38And Aaron the priest went up + Mount Hor at the command of the Lord and died there, in the fortieth year after the people of Israel had come out of the land of Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month. 
39And Aaron was + 123 years old when he died on Mount Hor.
40And + the Canaanite, the king of Arad, who lived in the Negeb in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the people of Israel.
41And they set out from Mount Hor and camped at Zalmonah. 
42And they set out from Zalmonah and camped at Punon. 
43And they set out from Punon and camped at + Oboth. 
44And they set out from Oboth and camped at + Iye-abarim, in the territory of Moab. 
45And they set out from Iyim and camped at + Dibon-gad. 
46And they set out from Dibon-gad and camped at Almon-diblathaim. 
47And they set out from Almon-diblathaim + and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo. 
48And they set out from the mountains of Abarim and camped in + the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho; 
49they camped by the Jordan from Beth-jeshimoth as far as + Abel-shittim in the plains of Moab.
50And the Lord spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho, saying, 
51“Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, + When you pass over the Jordan into the land of Canaan, 
52then + you shall drive out + all the inhabitants of the land from before you and destroy all their + figured stones and destroy all their metal images and demolish all their high places. 
53And you shall take possession of the land and settle in it, for I have given the land to you to possess it. 
54+ You shall inherit the land by lot according to your clans. + To a large tribe you shall give a large inheritance, and to a small tribe you shall give a small inheritance. Wherever the lot falls for anyone, that shall be his. According to the tribes of your fathers you shall inherit. 
55But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you, then those of them whom you let remain shall be as + barbs in your eyes and thorns in your sides, and they shall trouble you in the land where you dwell. 
56And I will do to you + as I thought to do to them.”
