1The Lord spoke to Moses + in the wilderness of Sinai, + in the tent of meeting, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they had come out of the land of Egypt, saying, 
2+ “Take a census of all the congregation of the people of Israel, by clans, + by fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, every male, head by head. 
3+ From twenty years old and upward, all in Israel who are able to go to war, you and Aaron shall list them, + company by company. 
4And there shall be with you a man from each tribe, each man being the head of the house of his fathers. 
5And these are the names of the men who shall assist you. From Reuben, + Elizur the son of Shedeur; 
6from Simeon, + Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai; 
7from Judah, + Nahshon the son of Amminadab; 
8from Issachar, + Nethanel the son of Zuar; 
9from Zebulun, + Eliab the son of Helon; 
10from the sons of Joseph, from Ephraim, + Elishama the son of Ammihud, and from Manasseh, + Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur; 
11from Benjamin, + Abidan the son of Gideoni; 
12from Dan, + Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai; 
13from Asher, + Pagiel the son of Ochran; 
14from Gad, Eliasaph the son of + Deuel; 
15from Naphtali, + Ahira the son of Enan.” 
16These were the ones + chosen from the congregation, + the chiefs of their ancestral tribes, the heads of the clans of Israel.
17Moses and Aaron took these men + who had been named, 
18and on the first day of the second month, they assembled the whole congregation together, who registered themselves by clans, by fathers’ houses, according to the number of names from twenty years old and upward, head by head, 
19as the Lord commanded Moses. So he listed them in the wilderness of Sinai.
20The people of + Reuben, Israel’s firstborn, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war: 
21those listed of the tribe of Reuben were + 46,500.
22Of the people of Simeon, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, those of them who were listed, according to the number of names, head by head, every male from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war: 
23those listed of the tribe of Simeon were + 59,300.
24Of the people of Gad, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all who were able to go to war: 
25those listed of the tribe of Gad were + 45,650.
26Of the people of Judah, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
27those listed of the tribe of Judah were + 74,600.
28Of the people of Issachar, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
29those listed of the tribe of Issachar were + 54,400.
30Of the people of Zebulun, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
31those listed of the tribe of Zebulun were + 57,400.
32Of the people of Joseph, namely, of the people of Ephraim, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
33those listed of the tribe of Ephraim were + 40,500.
34Of the people of Manasseh, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
35those listed of the tribe of Manasseh were + 32,200.
36Of the people of Benjamin, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
37those listed of the tribe of Benjamin were + 35,400.
38Of the people of Dan, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
39those listed of the tribe of Dan were + 62,700.
40Of the people of Asher, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
41those listed of the tribe of Asher were + 41,500.
42Of the people of Naphtali, their generations, by their clans, by their fathers’ houses, according to the number of names, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war: 
43those listed of the tribe of Naphtali were + 53,400.
44+ These are those who were listed, whom Moses and Aaron listed with the help of the chiefs of Israel, twelve men, each representing his fathers’ house. 
45So all those listed of the people of Israel, by their fathers’ houses, from twenty years old and upward, every man able to go to war in Israel— 
46all those listed were + 603,550.
47But + the Levites were not listed along with them by their ancestral tribe. 
48For the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, 
49“Only the tribe of Levi you shall not list, and you shall not take a census of them among the people of Israel. 
50+ But appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of the testimony, and over all its furnishings, and over all that belongs to it. They are to carry the tabernacle and all its furnishings, and they shall take care of it + and shall camp around the tabernacle. 
51+ When the tabernacle is to set out, the Levites shall take it down, and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up. + And if any outsider comes near, he shall be put to death. 
52The people of Israel shall pitch their tents by their companies, each man in his own camp and + each man by his own standard. 
53But the Levites shall camp around the tabernacle of the testimony, so that there may be no + wrath on the congregation of the people of Israel. + And the Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony.” 
54Thus did the people of Israel; they did according to all that the Lord commanded Moses.
