1And Balaam said to Balak, + “Build for me here seven altars, and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.” 
2Balak did as Balaam had said. And Balak and Balaam + offered on each altar a bull and a ram. 
3And Balaam said to Balak, + “Stand beside your burnt offering, and I will go. Perhaps the Lord will come + to meet me, and whatever he shows me I will tell you.” And he went to a bare height, 
4+ and God met Balaam. And Balaam said to him, “I have arranged the seven altars and I have offered on each altar a bull and a ram.” 
5And the Lord + put a word in Balaam’s mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and thus you shall speak.” 
6And he returned to him, and behold, he and all the princes of Moab were standing beside his burnt offering. 
7And Balaam + took up his discourse and said,
8How can I curse whom God has not cursed?
9For from the top of the crags + I see him,
10+ Who can count the dust of Jacob
11And Balak said to Balaam, “What have you done to me? + I took you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have done nothing but bless them.” 
12And he answered and said, + “Must I not take care to speak what the Lord puts in my mouth?”
13And Balak said to him, “Please come with me to another place, from which you may see them. You shall see only a fraction of them and shall not see them all. Then curse them for me from there.” 
14And he took him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, + and built seven altars and offered a bull and a ram on each altar. 
15Balaam said to Balak, + “Stand here beside your burnt offering, while I meet the Lord over there.” 
16And the Lord met Balaam and + put a word in his mouth and said, “Return to Balak, and thus shall you speak.” 
17And he came to him, and behold, he was standing beside his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said to him, “What has the Lord spoken?” 
18And Balaam took up his discourse and said,
19+ God is not man, that he should lie,
20Behold, I received a command to bless:
21+ He has not beheld misfortune in Jacob,
22+ God brings them out of Egypt
23For there is no enchantment against Jacob,
24Behold, a people! + As a lioness it rises up
25And Balak said to Balaam, “Do not curse them at all, and do not bless them at all.” 
26But Balaam answered Balak, “Did I not tell you, + ‘All that the Lord says, that I must do’?” 
27And Balak said to Balaam, + “Come now, I will take you to another place. Perhaps it will please God that you may curse them for me from there.” 
28So Balak took Balaam to the top of + Peor, which overlooks + the desert.+ 
29And Balaam said to Balak, + “Build for me here seven altars and prepare for me here seven bulls and seven rams.” 
30+ And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bull and a ram on each altar.
