1The heads of the fathers’ houses of the clan of the + people of Gilead the son of Machir, son of Manasseh, from the clans of the people of Joseph, came near and spoke before Moses and before the chiefs, the heads of the fathers’ houses of the people of Israel. 
2They said, + “The Lord commanded my lord to give the land for inheritance by lot to the people of Israel, and + my lord was commanded by the Lord to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother to his daughters. 
3But if they are married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the people of Israel, then their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of our fathers and added to the inheritance of the tribe into which they marry. So it will be taken away from the lot of our inheritance. 
4And when + the jubilee of the people of Israel comes, then their inheritance will be added to the inheritance of the tribe into which they marry, and their inheritance will be taken from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.”
5And Moses commanded the people of Israel according to the word of the Lord, saying, “The tribe of the people of Joseph + is right. 
6This is what the Lord commands concerning the daughters of Zelophehad: ‘Let them marry whom they think best, + only they shall marry within the clan of the tribe of their father. 
7The inheritance of the people of Israel shall not be transferred from one tribe to another, for every one of the people of Israel + shall hold on to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers. 
8And + every daughter who possesses an inheritance in any tribe of the people of Israel shall be wife to one of the clan of the tribe of her father, so that every one of the people of Israel may possess the inheritance of his fathers. 
9So no inheritance shall be transferred from one tribe to another, for each of the tribes of the people of Israel shall hold on to its own inheritance.’”
10The daughters of Zelophehad did as the Lord commanded Moses, 
11+ for Mahlah, Tirzah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married to sons of their father’s brothers. 
12They were married into the clans of the people of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of their father’s clan.
13These are the commandments and the rules that the Lord commanded through Moses to the people of Israel + in the plains of Moab by the Jordan at Jericho.
